REBOL v3 
Built to be used anywhere at anytime. Starting from linux 64 glibc6 2.11.

To be clear as many other I took REBOL v3 by Carl Sassenrath
abandonned and deprecated work in the hope to transform it to a success.

If you want to give monney buy something at rebol.com to show your love to REBOL and Carl Sassenrath. I don't know if in 2017 rebolTech still sells stuffs but you still can send an email to Carl Sassenrath to show your appreciation and tell him that you will donate to his paypal account if he gives it to you.


If you want to reward me for my work than  commit/participate to this project. Do it the git way. Send me an email or participate in rebol forum www.digicamsoft.com/cgi-bin/rebelBB.cgi (it's in french but don't be shy...) 

You want to build this? 
it's for LINUX 64-bit libc6 2.11 kernel 4.5+ (with make and gcc and a static binary rebol v3 you will have to trust me that it works) 

git clone this repo
enter the folder rebol/make 
do make and that's it ! Enjoy your reboli v3 VM !!

--- Who I am ?
My name is Alphé Salas, I am a Software Ingeneer formed at University Paris 8i (France). Spent 10 years actively creating rebol scripts for the comminity best acheivement script was with rebol v2 Viva-Rebol IDE (http://github.com/viva-rebol/viva-rebol.r). 

In 2010 I retire from producing script for the rebol community. First because it was reduced to a handfull of people which were engrossed in creating RED the next thing. I thought instead of dividing us we should focus on solving rebol2 issues. Then Carl Sassenrath proposed r3 ... and things were even more divided.
Less people had access to rebol and rebol wasn't progressing.

After 7 years I still think rebol should be more known more supported.

--- What to expect ?
I hate r3 ... for me rebol 2 was like the best you could get for less tha a 1.44 Mo. I understand r3 is so much fast an new ... but it has almost none of the feature you could get in rebol 2.

It's been 5 years since Carl graceously donate r3 code to the world and do rebol is better known better supported ? 
Answer is REWhat!?

Rebol is Rebol what ever it's version is. While it was transformed to a LUA wanabe it lost almost everything that was cool about rebol. 

The only great stuffs that stays in today r3 form rebol v2 is parse, do http::/myscript.r, and all related METALANGUAGE abilities.  

Rebol needs a strong core, a centralized package manager,  
a centralized web site (github) to host the rebol extensions (all that is not in the core by default), Big projects like PHP cake or Django.

In a short time I set as goal to have a package of rebol v3 for every major linux distro.

-- Where to start?

First task stripping rebol v3 from all the unecesary things (reb-lib, host, chat, bugs etc... stopping calling rebol v3, r3 or  an alpha testing version but naming it rebol as it always add been called)

Then a better compilation process using a bash script to test if there is approprited tools to build rebol. If there are not it gets and install them.

Once we have a rebol 3 striped of non senses we will broadly package and distribute it to the linux world.

--- Can I do all this alone ? 

I expect you will help me massively To make rebol v3 the great well known language it should be . 

But to be honnest I think I will be alone... 


--- Kept original content because licence term and respect ---

Rebol [R3] Source Code Distribution
Date: 12-Dec-2012
Version: 2.101.0
From: Carl Sassenrath
Web: www.rebol.com


Build Target:

This first release is intended for non-Windows systems like Linux, Mac, BSD,
Android, etc. However, it will build for Windows, but I've not included the
typical MSVC project files. I'll try to get that added, but it's not that
tough to create one yourself. You will need to set struct align to 4 bytes.


About the Makefile:

You might notice that the makefile is a bit old-fashioned. That's because I
still support Rebol on some very old systems that don't offer newer makefile
features. So, please keep that in mind and stick with this simple format.

Also, the makefile is built by Rebol. Typing "make make" will rebuild it,
and you can also select a different platform target by providing
the Rebol platform identifier typing e.g. "make make OS_ID=0.4.4" (Linux
Libc6 2.11 platform version).


Build Instructions:

Parts of Rebol are built by Rebol. So, to build it, you'll need to download a
running binary into the local make directory. Call it r3-make.

The build happens in the make directory. It will create an obj sub-dir for
storing the object files. I prefer this over mixing the source and object
files into the same directory.

You may need to do "make clean" for clean make session.

The biggest step is to do the "make prep" which will use Rebol to configure
and build a number of important C header files.

If you are building for a new platform that has no existing Rebol, you can use
"make prep" to build all the files you need on an existing platform and copy
them to the new platform.

After the prep, just run "make" or "make r3" and the rest of the system will
build.


Toolchain Note:

Rebol builds on many different compilers over a range of systems. Although
the C source doesn't strictly follow any one standard, it's quite portable
and I've yet to find a toolchain that won't build it. You can even cross
compile it for embedded systems quite easily. If you run into a problem,
it's probably something fairly simple. Don't over complicate it.


Note to Contributors:

I welcome your help with porting Rebol to many more devices and making various
improvements. I just ask that you:

1. Keep code clear and simple.
2. Document unusual code, reasoning, or gotchas.
3. Use same style for code, vars, indent(4), comments, etc.
4. Keep in mind Linux, OS X, BSD, big/little endian CPUs.
5. Test everything, then test it again.

Enjoy your new Rebol freedom,

-Carl

Bug reporting note:

Report bugs, wishes, etc. at the

    http://curecode.org/rebol3/view-tickets.rsp

site.
